Cloud Security Posture Management Playbooks
2.1.1 11826762
This pack provides the remediation playbooks for Cortex Cloud Issues and Cases.

11 Playbooks

47 Automation Rules
Overview
This content pack helps fix common cloud misconfigurations automatically with analyst approval or performs auto-remediation without approval, optionally notifying stakeholders. It also includes two versatile, cloud-agnostic playbooks for creating tickets and sending notifications via ServiceNow, Jira, Email, Slack, or Microsoft Teams.
Key Use Cases
Automatically remediate AWS misconfigurations with optional analyst approval.
Automatically remediate AWS, Azure, and GCP public access misconfigurations with minimal or no manual intervention.
Create or update issue tickets in Jira or ServiceNow.
Notify teams through Slack, Microsoft Teams, or email.
Included Playbooks
AWS Remediation Playbooks
AWS EC2 Instance Misconfiguration Remediation
Ensures EC2 instances are configured with Instance Metadata Service v2 (IMDSv2).
Offers analyst-in-the-loop or fully automated remediation.
Integrates with AWS and Cortex Core IR.
AWS IAM Password Policy Remediation
Remediates 9 different insecure IAM password policy configurations, such as:
Password reuse
Minimum password length
Lack of complexity requirements (uppercase, symbols, etc.)
No expiration policy
Supports both automated and analyst approval flows.
AWS S3 Bucket Public Access Remediation
Detects and remediates publicly accessible S3 buckets (read or write access).
Ensures S3 compliance with cloud security policies.
AWS Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate
Automatically disables public access settings for RDS Database instances, EBS Snapshots and S3 buckets.
Option to notify stakeholders about the remediation via Email, Slack or MS Teams.
Set enableNotifications to ‘yes’ and configure inputs for the Notify Stakeholders playbook to send issue, asset and remediation details.
Azure Remediation Playbooks
Azure Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate
Automatically remediates the misconfiguration issues for publicly accessible Azure blob containers, overly permissive Azure VM Disks or default Allow network access to Azure Storage Accounts.
Option to notify stakeholders about the remediation via Email, Slack or MS Teams.
Set enableNotifications to ‘yes’ and configure inputs for the Notify Stakeholders playbook to send issue, asset and remediation details.
GCP Remediation Playbooks
GCP Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate
Automatically secure the publicly exposed GCP bucket by updating policies to block public access immediately.
Option to notify stakeholders about the remediation via Email, Slack or MS Teams.
Set enableNotifications to ‘yes’ and configure inputs for the Notify Stakeholders playbook to send issue, asset and remediation details.
All remediation playbooks leverage:
AWS integrations
Sub-playbooks for ticket creation and/or notification
Context-aware command execution
Generic Utility Playbook
Create Ticket and Notify
Creates or updates incident tickets using Jira V3 or ServiceNow v2.
Notifies stakeholders via Slack, Microsoft Teams, or email.
Customizable behavior: ticket-only, notification-only, or both.
Detects available integrations and adapts accordingly.
Notify Stakeholders
This is a sub-playbook that is used in the Public Access Misconfiguration remediation playbooks for AWS, Azure, and GCP.
It is used to send issue and asset details along with the remediation action taken, in a well formatted notification message via Email, Slack or MS Teams, depending on the configured and enabled integrations.
Configure recipients for email, slack or MS Teams notification in the Playbook Triggered header of this playbook
If no inputs are pre-configured and enableNotifications is set to ‘yes’ in the remediation playbook, execution will pause to request at least one recipient.
Dependencies
This pack uses the following integrations:
AWS
Azure
GCP
Cortex Core - IR
Jira V3
ServiceNow v2
Microsoft Teams
SlackV3
mail-sender
Future Roadmap
Additional coverage for High/Critical severity AWS, Azure, and GCP misconfiguration issues
Requirements
Active integrations for AWS, Azure, GCP, Jira, ServiceNow, Slack, Microsoft Teams (depending on use)
Access to cloud account APIs with sufficient permissions for remediation
Pack Contributors
Shashi Testman
Ann Testman
Marc Cyr
Anmol Baansal
Contributions are welcome and appreciated. For more info, visit our Contribution Guide.
Pack Contributors:
Marc Cyr
Anmol Baansal
Contributions are welcome and appreciated. For more info, visit our Contribution Guide.
PUBLISHER
Cortex
INFO
Status
Installed
Last installed
Sep 8th 2026 09:34:02
Installed version
2.1.1 11826762
Certification

Certified
Supported by
Cortex
Go to
Content Pack support site
First Created
Sep 26th 2025
Last Release
Aug 11th 2026
Core
WORKS WITH THE FOLLOWING INTEGRATIONS:
Goo...
Ama...
Ser...
Ser...
Ser...
Ser...
Ser...
Atl...
Atl...
Jir...
Mic...
Mic...
Mic...
Cor...
Ind...
Inv...
XQL...
Sla...
Sla...
Sla...
Sla...
Azure
DISCLAIMER
Content packs are licensed by the Publisher identified above and subject to the Publisher’s own licensing terms. Palo Alto Networks is not liable for and does not warrant or support any content pack produced by a third-party Publisher, whether or not such packs are designated as “Palo Alto Networks-certified” or otherwise. Palo Alto Networks disclaims all liability, however arising, in connection with third party content packs and any use thereof. For more information, see the Marketplace documentation.





Automation Rules (47)
Name ↑
Description
Remove GCP Bucket AllUsers Access
This CLI command requires 'storage.buckets.getIamPolicy' and 'storage.buckets.setIamPolicy' permissions. Successful execution will revoke 'allUsers' permission access in GCP Storage buckets.
Remove GCP Bucket AllAuthenticatedUser Access
This CLI command requires 'storage.buckets.getIamPolicy' and 'storage.buckets.setIamPolicy' permissions. Successful execution will revoke 'allAuthenticatedUsers' permission access in GCP Storage buckets.
Remediation playbook for AWS S3 Bucket Publicly accessible
This trigger is responsible for handling AWS S3 Bucket Publicly Accessible Issues
Remediation playbook for AWS IAM Password Policy Misconfiguration
This trigger is responsible for handling AWS IAM Password Policy Misconfiguration Issues
Remediation playbook for AWS EC2 misconfigurations
This trigger is responsible for handling AWS EC2 Instance Misconfiguration Issues
Make GCP Bucket Private
This CLI command requires 'storage.buckets.getIamPolicy' and 'storage.buckets.setIamPolicy' permissions. Successful execution will revoke 'allUsers' and 'allAuthenticatedUsers' permission access in GCP Storage buckets.
Enable GCP Bucket Versioning
This CLI command requires 'storage.buckets.update' permission. Successful execution will enable GCP Storage log buckets 'versioning'.
Enable GKE Cluster Intra-node Visibility
This CLI command requires 'container.clusters.update' permission. Successful execution will enable intra-node visibility for GCP Kubernetes Engine cluster which helps visualize flow logs for all traffic between Pods.
Enable IAM Authentication on RDS
This CLI command requires 'rds:ModifyDBInstance' permission. Successful execution will enable IAM Authentication for the reported AWS RDS instance.
Enable IAM Authentication on RDS Cluster
This CLI command requires 'rds:ModifyDBCluster' permission. Successful execution will enable IAM Authentication for the reported AWS RDS cluster.
Enable Master Authorized Networks on GKE
This CLI command requires 'container.clusters.update' permission. Successful execution will enable Master authorized network for GCP Kubernetes Engine cluster by blocking untrusted non-GCP source IPs from accessing the Kubernetes master through HTTPS.
Enable RDS Auto Upgrade
This CLI command requires 'rds:ModifyDBInstance' permission. Successful execution will enable the minor upgrades of RDS datsbase instance
Enable RDS Cluster Deletion Protection
This CLI command requires 'rds:ModifyDBCluster' permission. Successful execution will enable deletion protection for the reported AWS RDS cluster.
Enable S3 Versioning
This CLI command requires 's3:PutBucketVersioning' permission. Successful execution will enable Object Versioning for the respective S3 bucket.
Enable Soft Delete on Blob
This CLI command requires 'Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/write' permission. Successful execution will enable soft delete for blobs on Azure Storage accounts. NOTE: As best practice we are setting delete retention days to 30 days; it can be changed based on customer requirement by cloning the policy.
Playbooks (11)
Name ↑
Description
AWS EC2 Instance Misconfiguration - Remediate and Notify
This playbook helps you fix cloud security misconfigurations on your AWS EC2 Instances. It also makes it easy to involve your team by creating tickets and sending notifications through your chosen services.
You have the flexibility to fully automate the fix or include an analyst review and approval step before any changes are made. Ticketing and notifications are handled by a sub-playbook, which you need to set up with your preferred integrations. You can choose to only create or update a ticket and skip the notification, skip creating or updating a ticket and send only a notification, or both create or update a ticket and notify relevant parties. If you want an analyst to approve the fix, you need to provide their email address. The playbook will send them the issue details and wait for their decision before applying any changes.

This playbook can fix the following misconfigurations:

- AWS EC2 instance not configured with Instance Metadata Service v2 (IMDSv2).
AWS IAM Password Policies Misconfiguration - Remediate and Notify
This playbook helps you fix cloud security misconfigurations related to your AWS IAM password policy. It also makes it easy to involve your team by creating tickets and sending notifications through your chosen services.
You have the flexibility to fully automate the fix or include an analyst review and approval step before any changes are made. Ticketing and notifications are handled by a sub-playbook, which you need to set up with your preferred integrations. You can choose to only create or update a ticket and skip the notification, skip creating or updating a ticket and send only a notification, or both create or update a ticket and notify relevant parties. If you want an analyst to approve the fix, you need to provide their email address. The playbook will send them the issue details and wait for their decision before applying any changes.

This playbook can fix the following misconfigurations:

- AWS IAM password policy allows password reuse
- AWS IAM password policy does not expire in 90 days
- AWS IAM password policy does not have a lowercase character
- AWS IAM password policy does not have a minimum of 14 characters
- AWS IAM password policy does not have a number
- AWS IAM password policy does not have a symbol
- AWS IAM password policy does not have an uppercase character
- AWS IAM password policy does not have password expiration period
- AWS IAM Password policy is unsecure.
AWS Network Exposure - Auto-remediate
This playbook remediates AWS Network Exposure detections, specifically Amazon EC2 instances with management ports exposed to the public internet. It updates the AWS asset with a new security group that mirrors the original but excludes the security rule causing public exposure.
AWS Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate
Automatically remediates 9 AWS public access misconfigurations: 1 RDS database, 1 EBS snapshot, and 7 S3 bucket issues:
1. AWS RDS database instance is publicly accessible
2. AWS EBS snapshots are accessible to public
3. AWS S3 buckets are accessible to public via ACL
4. AWS S3 Buckets Block public access setting disabled
5. AWS CloudTrail bucket is publicly accessible
6. AWS Connect instance using publicly accessible S3 bucket
7. AWS S3 bucket policy overly permissive to any principal
8. AWS S3 bucket publicly readable
9. AWS S3 bucket publicly writable

The playbook disables public access by modifying RDS publicly_accessible settings, removing EBS snapshot createVolumePermission, and enabling S3 PublicAccessBlockConfiguration respectively.

Optional stakeholder notification is available via the "Notify Stakeholders" sub-playbook by setting enableNotifications input to 'yes' (default: 'no'). When enabled, configure at least one recipient (email, Slack channel, or Teams channel) in the Notify Stakeholders playbook inputs. The playbook automatically updates the issue status to "Resolved - Fixed" upon successful remediation.
AWS S3 Bucket Publicly Accessible - Remediate and Notify
This playbook helps you fix cloud security misconfigurations related to your AWS S3 bucket. It also makes it easy to involve your team by creating tickets and sending notifications through your chosen services.
You have the flexibility to fully automate the fix or include an analyst review and approval step before any changes are made. Ticketing and notifications are handled by a sub-playbook, which you need to set up with your preferred integrations. You can choose to only create or update a ticket and skip the notification, skip creating or updating a ticket and send only a notification, or both create or update a ticket and notify relevant parties. If you want an analyst to approve the fix, you need to provide their email address. The playbook will send them the issue details and wait for their decision before applying any changes.

This playbook can fix the following misconfigurations.

- AWS S3 bucket publicly readable
- AWS S3 bucket publicly writable.
Azure Network Exposure - Auto-remediate
This playbook remediates Azure Network Exposure detections where virtual machines have management ports exposed to the public internet. It updates the Network Security Group (NSG) by adding a high-priority Deny rule to block public access and an Allow rule to permit internal traffic.
Azure Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate
Automatically remediates 3 Azure public access misconfigurations: 
1. Azure storage account has a blob container with public access
2. Azure VM disk configured with overly permissive network access
3. Azure Storage Account default network access is set to 'Allow'

The playbook disables public access by setting allowBlobPublicAccess to false, configuring VM disk publicNetworkAccess to Disabled with a DenyAll policy, and updating the storage account default network access action to Deny.

Optional stakeholder notification is available via the "Notify Stakeholders" sub-playbook by setting enableNotifications input to 'yes' (default: 'no'). When enabled, configure at least one recipient (email, Slack channel, or Teams channel) in the Notify Stakeholders playbook inputs. The playbook automatically updates the issue status to "Resolved - Fixed" upon successful remediation.
Create Ticket and Notify
This playbook automates the handling of issues, sending them through ServiceNow v2 or Jira v3 and notifying stakeholders via Slack v3, Microsoft Teams, or email. You have the flexibility to create or update a ticket using Jira or ServiceNow, to notify other teams using Slack or Microsoft Teams, or to send an email. You can choose to only create or update a ticket and skip the notification, skip creating or updating a ticket and send only a notification, or both create or update a ticket and notify relevant parties. This playbook requires existing integrations with Jira, ServiceNow, Slack, or Microsoft Teams to perform these actions. If none of these integrations are found in your account, the playbook will post message to the Issue War Room notifying the missing integrations.
GCP Network Exposure - Auto-remediate
This playbook automatically remediates Google Compute Engine instances with management ports exposed to the internet. It adds GCP firewall rules to deny public access on specified ports while allowing internal IP traffic. It also uses network tags to apply rules to resources or adds the required tag to assets if the rule already exists.
GCP Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate
Automatically remediates 2 GCP public access misconfigurations:
1. GCP Storage buckets are publicly accessible to all users
2. GCP Storage buckets are publicly accessible to all authenticated users

The playbook removes public IAM policy bindings by deleting 'allUsers' and 'allAuthenticatedUsers' entities from the bucket's Access Control List respectively.

Optional stakeholder notification is available via the "Notify Stakeholders" sub-playbook by setting enableNotifications input to 'yes' (default: 'no'). When enabled, configure at least one recipient (email, Slack channel, or Teams channel) in the Notify Stakeholders playbook inputs. The playbook automatically updates the issue status to "Resolved - Fixed" upon successful remediation.
Notify Stakeholders
This playbook automates stakeholder notifications via Slack v3, Microsoft Teams, or email. It requires active Slack, Microsoft Teams, Mail Sender, or Gmail integrations. If no supported integration is configured, the playbook exits without taking action.
Cart
0

Your cart is empty
Go shopping
Agentix




This content pack may require additional content packs:
Required Content Packs
Base
By: Cortex

Cloud Security Policy Management
By: Cortex

Common Scripts
By: Cortex

Core
By: Cortex

Filters And Transformers
By: Cortex

Optional Content Packs
Atlassian Jira
By: Cortex

Microsoft Teams
By: Cortex

ServiceNow
By: Cortex

Slack
By: Cortex

Cart
0

Your cart is empty
Go shopping
Agentix



2.1.1 - 11826762 (Aug 11th 2026 )

Reinstall 2.1.1
Installed
Playbooks
Azure Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate
Updated the playbook to use the new  azure-compute-disk-update  command, replacing the deprecated  azure-disk-update  command.
2.1.0 - 9981621 (Jun 9th 2026 )

Revert to this version
Triggers Recommendations
New: Allow Access by Trusted Services
Added support for the Allow Access by Trusted Services triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/*’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables Azure accounts to bypass ‘Trusted Microsoft Services’.
New: Assign Managed Identity to Function App
Added support for the Assign Managed Identity triggers recommendation to Function App triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Web/sites/Write’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation sets a managed service identity in the Azure Function App to eliminate secrets (such as credentials in connection strings) and increase security.
New: Assign Managed Identity to Web App
Added support for the Assign Managed Identity to Web App** triggers recommendation to Web App triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Web/sites/{app_name}/config/*’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation sets a managed service identity in App Service to eliminate secrets (such as credentials in connection strings) and increase security.
New: Disable Network Access to Storage Account
Added support for the Disable Network Access to Storage Account** triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/*’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation disables the default network access rule for Storage Accounts.
New: Disable Public & Private Access to VM Disk
Added support for the Disable Public & Private Access to VM Disk triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Compute/disks/write’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation disables public network access and sets the network access policy to DenyAll for the specified disk, blocking external access. Options include disabling public access while enabling private access, or disabling both public and private access.
New: Disable Public Access on RDS
Added support for the Disable Public Access on RDS triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘rds:ModifyDBInstance’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation disables the publicly accessible configuration of AWS RDS database instances.
New: Disable Remote Debugging on Azure App
Added support for the Disable Remote Debugging on Azure App triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Web/sites/config/Write’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation disables remote debugging on Azure App Service apps.
New: Disable Storage Account Cross Tenant Replication
Added support for the Disable Storage Account Cross Tenant Replication triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/*’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation disables cross-tenant replication in Storage Accounts.
New: Enable Automatic Backup for RDS dB
Added support for the Enable Automatic Backup for RDS dB triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘rds:ModifyDBInstance’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables the automatic backup settings for RDS instances.
New: Enable Azure App Service Auth
Added support for the Enable Azure App Service Auth triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Web/sites/{app_name}/config/authsettings/*’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables App Service authentication to prevent anonymous HTTP requests from reaching the API app, or authenticates requests containing tokens before they reach the API app.
New: Enable CloudTrail Log Validation
Added support for the Enable CloudTrail Log Validation triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘cloudtrail:UpdateTrail’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables log file validation for the specified CloudTrail.
New: Enable CloudTrail Logging
Added support for the Enable CloudTrail Logging triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘cloudtrail:StartLogging’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables logging for the respective CloudTrail.
New: Enable Copy Tags on RDS Snapshot
Added support for the Enable Copy Tags on RDS Snapshot triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘rds:ModifyDBInstance’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables ‘copy tags to snapshots’ for the respective RDS instance.
New: Enable Deletion Protection on RDS
Added support for the Enable Deletion Protection on RDS triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘rds:ModifyDBInstance’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables deletion protection for the reported AWS RDS instance.
New: Enable GCP Bucket Versioning
Added support for the Enable GCP Bucket Versioning triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘storage.buckets.update’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables GCP Storage log buckets versioning.
New: Enable GKE Cluster Intra-node Visibility
Added support for the Enable GKE Cluster Intra-node Visibility triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘container.clusters.update’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables intra-node visibility for the GCP Kubernetes Engine cluster to expose flow logs for traffic between Pods.
New: Enable IAM Authentication on RDS
Added support for the Enable IAM Authentication on RDS triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘rds:ModifyDBInstance’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables IAM Authentication for the reported AWS RDS instance.
New: Enable IAM Authentication on RDS Cluster
Added support for the Enable IAM Authentication on RDS Cluster triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘rds:ModifyDBCluster’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables IAM Authentication for the reported AWS RDS cluster.
New: Enable Master Authorized Networks on GKE
Added support for the Enable Master Authorized Networks on GKE triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘container.clusters.update’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables the Master authorized network for the GCP Kubernetes Engine cluster by blocking untrusted non-GCP source IPs from accessing the Kubernetes master through HTTPS.
New: Enable RDS Auto Upgrade
Added support for the Enable RDS Auto Upgrade triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘rds:ModifyDBInstance’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables minor upgrades for the RDS database instance.
New: Enable RDS Cluster Deletion Protection
Added support for the Enable RDS Cluster Deletion Protection triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘rds:ModifyDBCluster’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables deletion protection for the reported AWS RDS cluster.
New: Enable S3 Versioning
Added support for the Enable S3 Versioning triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘s3:PutBucketVersioning’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables Object Versioning for the respective S3 bucket.
New: Enable Soft Delete on Blob
Added support for the Enable Soft Delete on Blob triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/write’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables soft delete for blobs on Azure Storage accounts. By default, the delete retention period is configured to 30 days, which can be modified by cloning the policy.
New: Make GCP Bucket Private
Added support for the Make GCP Bucket Private triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘storage.buckets.getIamPolicy’ and ‘storage.buckets.setIamPolicy’ permissions. Running the command for this recommendation revokes ‘allUsers’ and ‘allAuthenticatedUsers’ permission access on GCP Storage buckets.
New: Remove GCP Bucket AllAuthenticatedUser Access
Added support for the Remove GCP Bucket AllAuthenticatedUser Access triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘storage.buckets.getIamPolicy’ and ‘storage.buckets.setIamPolicy’ permissions. Running the command for this recommendation revokes ‘allAuthenticatedUsers’ permission access on GCP Storage buckets.
New: Remove GCP Bucket AllUsers Access
Added support for the Remove GCP Bucket AllUsers Access triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘storage.buckets.getIamPolicy’ and ‘storage.buckets.setIamPolicy’ permissions. Running the command for this recommendation revokes ‘allUsers’ permission access on GCP Storage buckets.
New: Set AMI to Private
Added support for the Set AMI to Private triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘ec2:ModifyImageAttribute’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation configures the AMI access level to private to ensure only the owner retains full privileges.
New: Set Function App HTTP Version to 2.0
Added support for the Set Function App HTTP Version to 2.0 triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Web/sites/config/Write’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation sets the HTTP version to 2.0 to resolve head-of-line blocking issues, introduce header compression, and enable request prioritization.
New: Set Function App Min TLS Version
Added support for the Set Function App Min TLS Version triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Web/sites/config/Write’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation sets the Web App TLS encryption version to the latest standard (i.e., TLS 1.2).
New: Set GCP Bucket Access to Uniform
Added support for the Set GCP Bucket Access to Uniform triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘storage.buckets.update’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation sets uniform bucket-level access in GCP Storage buckets. Note that once uniform bucket-level access has been enabled on a bucket for 90 consecutive days, it can no longer be disabled.
New: Set RDS Cluster Snapshot to Private
Added support for the Set RDS Cluster Snapshot to Private triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘rds:ModifyDBClusterSnapshotAttribute’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation resets the RDS Cluster snapshot Access Control List (ACL) to private to ensure only the owner retains full privileges.
New: Set RDS Snapshot to Private
Added support for the Set RDS Snapshot to Private triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘rds:ModifyDBSnapshotAttribute’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation resets the RDS snapshot Access Control List (ACL) to private to ensure only the owner retains full privileges.
New: Set Secure Transport for MySQL
Added support for the Set Secure Transport for MySQL triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.DBforMySQL/flexibleServers/configurations/write’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables SSL connections on your Azure MySQL database flexible server.
New: Set Snapshot to Private
Added support for the Set Snapshot to Private triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘ec2:ModifySnapshotAttribute’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation configures the EBS snapshot access level to private to ensure only the owner retains full privileges.
New: Set Storage Account to HTTPS only
Added support for the Set Storage Account to HTTPS only triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/*’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation enables secure transfer for the specified storage account.
New: Set Web App Min TLS Version
Added support for the Set Web App Min TLS Version triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Web/sites/{app_name}/config/*’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation sets the Web App TLS encryption version to the latest standard (i.e., TLS 1.2).
New: Set Webapp HTTP Version to 2.0
Added support for the Set Webapp HTTP Version to 2.0 triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Web/sites/{app_name}/config/*’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation sets the HTTP version to 2.0 to resolve head-of-line blocking issues, introduce header compression, and enable request prioritization.
New: Update Azure Monitor Log Retention Period
Added support for the Update Azure Monitor Log Retention Period triggers recommendation. Requires the ‘Microsoft.Insights/LogProfiles/[Read, Write, Delete]’ permission. Running the command for this recommendation updates the Azure Monitor log profile retention policy to 365 days.
2.0.0 - 9069814 (May 17th 2026 )

Revert to this version
Playbooks
New: AWS Network Exposure - Auto-remediate
This playbook remediates AWS Network Exposure detections, specifically Amazon EC2 instances with management ports exposed to the public internet. It updates the AWS asset with a new security group that is a copy of the original but excludes the security rule causing public exposure.
New: Azure Network Exposure - Auto-remediate
This playbook remediates Azure Network Exposure detections where virtual machines have management ports exposed to the public internet. It updates the Network Security Group (NSG) by adding a high-priority Deny rule to block public access and an Allow rule to permit internal traffic.
New: GCP Network Exposure - Auto-remediate
This playbook automatically remediates Google Compute Engine instances with management ports exposed  to the internet. It adds GCP firewall rules to deny public access on specified ports while allowing internal IP traffic. It also uses network tags to apply rules to resources or adds the required tag to assets if the rule already exists.
Notify Stakeholders
Updated the Notify Stakeholders playbook to use adaptive cards for the Microsoft Teams notification.
Triggers Recommendations
New: Trigger - AWS Network Exposure
Added the Trigger - AWS Network Exposure triggers recommendation that recommends the AWS Network Exposure - Auto-remediate playbook to automatically remediate the network exposure of AWS resources by updating the AWS asset with a new security group which is a copy of the original but without the offending security rule that causes public exposure.
(Available from Cortex XSIAM V3.5).
New: Trigger - Azure Network Exposure
Added the Trigger - Azure Network Exposure triggers recommendation that recommends the Azure Network Exposure - Auto-remediate playbook. This playbook remediates Azure VM network exposure by updating the Network Security Group (NSG). It adds a high-priority Deny rule to block public access and an Allow rule to permit internal IP traffic.
(Available from Cortex XSIAM V3.5).
New: Trigger - GCP Network Exposure
Added the Trigger - GCP Network Exposure triggers recommendation that recommends the GCP Network Exposure - Auto-remediate playbook. This playbook remediates the network exposure of GCP resources by adding firewall rules to deny public internet access on specified ports and allow access from internal IPs.
(Available from Cortex XSIAM V3.5).
1.5.1 - 7850318 (Mar 23rd 2026 )

Revert to this version
Documentation and metadata improvements.
1.5.0 - R7448282 (Mar 5th 2026 )

Revert to this version
Playbooks
New: Notify Stakeholders
This playbook automates notifying stakeholders via Slack v3, Microsoft Teams, or email. You have the flexibility to notify other teams via Slack, Microsoft Teams or Email by configuring the necessary integration. This playbook requires existing integrations with Slack, Microsoft Teams, Mail Sender or Gmail to perform these actions. If none of these integrations are found in your account, the playbook will exit with no action.
New: AWS Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate
Automatically remediates 9 AWS public access misconfigurations: 1 RDS database, 1 EBS snapshot, and 7 S3 bucket issues:
AWS RDS database instance is publicly accessible
AWS EBS snapshots are accessible to public
AWS S3 buckets are accessible to public via ACL
AWS S3 Buckets Block public access setting disabled
AWS CloudTrail bucket is publicly accessible
AWS Connect instance using publicly accessible S3 bucket
AWS S3 bucket policy overly permissive to any principal
AWS S3 bucket publicly readable
AWS S3 bucket publicly writable
The playbook disables public access by modifying RDS publicly_accessible settings, removing EBS snapshot createVolumePermission, and enabling S3 PublicAccessBlockConfiguration respectively.
Optional stakeholder notification is available via the “Notify Stakeholders” sub-playbook by setting enableNotifications input to ‘yes’ (default: ‘no’). When enabled, configure at least one recipient (email, Slack channel, or Teams channel) in the Notify Stakeholders playbook inputs. The playbook automatically updates the issue status to “Resolved - Fixed” upon successful remediation.
New: Azure Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate
Automatically remediates 3 Azure public access misconfigurations:
Azure storage account has a blob container with public access
Azure VM disk configured with overly permissive network access
Azure Storage Account default network access is set to ‘Allow’
The playbook disables public access by setting allowBlobPublicAccess to false, configuring VM disk publicNetworkAccess to Disabled with a DenyAll policy, and updating the storage account default network access action to Deny.
Optional stakeholder notification is available via the “Notify Stakeholders” sub-playbook by setting enableNotifications input to ‘yes’ (default: ‘no’). When enabled, configure at least one recipient (email, Slack channel, or Teams channel) in the Notify Stakeholders playbook inputs. The playbook automatically updates the issue status to “Resolved - Fixed” upon successful remediation.
New: GCP Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate
Automatically remediates 2 GCP public access misconfigurations:
GCP Storage buckets are publicly accessible to all users
GCP Storage buckets are publicly accessible to all authenticated users
The playbook removes public IAM policy bindings by deleting ‘allUsers’ and ‘allAuthenticatedUsers’ entities from the bucket’s Access Control List respectively.
Optional stakeholder notification is available via the “Notify Stakeholders” sub-playbook by setting enableNotifications input to ‘yes’ (default: ‘no’). When enabled, configure at least one recipient (email, Slack channel, or Teams channel) in the Notify Stakeholders playbook inputs. The playbook automatically updates the issue status to “Resolved - Fixed” upon successful remediation.
Triggers Recommendations
New: Trigger - AWS Public Access Misconfiguration
New: Added a new trigger recommendation - Trigger - AWS Public Access Misconfiguration. It suggests the AWS Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate playbook to automatically remediate 9 High Severity Cortex Issues caused by cloud asset misconfigurations that expose AWS RDS database instances, EBS snapshots, or S3 buckets to public access.
New: Trigger - Azure Public Access Misconfiguration
New: Added a new trigger recommendation - Trigger - Azure Public Access Misconfiguration that suggests the Azure Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate playbook to automatically remediate 3 High Severity Cortex Issues caused by cloud asset misconfigurations that lead to exposed Azure Blob containers, default “Allow” access on Storage Accounts, or overly permissive VM disks.
New: Trigger - GCP Public Access Misconfiguration
New: Added a new trigger recommendation - Trigger - GCP Public Access Misconfiguration that suggests the GCP Public Access Misconfiguration - Auto-remediate playbook to automatically remediate 2 High Severity Cortex misconfiguration Issues for GCP Storage buckets accessible to allUSers or allAuthenticatedUSers.
1.0.1 - 5640163 (Oct 29th 2025 )

Revert to this version
Triggers Recommendations
Remediation playbook for AWS S3 Bucket Publicly accessible
Documentation and metadata improvements.
Remediation playbook for AWS IAM Password Policy Misconfiguration
Documentation and metadata improvements.
Remediation playbook for AWS EC2 misconfigurations
Documentation and metadata improvements.
1.0.0 - 5103859 (Sep 26th 2025 )

Revert to this version
This pack provides the remediation playbooks for Cortex Cloud Issues and Cases.
Cart
0

Your cart is empty
Go shopping
